---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /renderer/renderPartialVideo
---

# renderPartialVideo()

The `renderPartialVideo()` function lets you render partial videos if you want
to distribute the rendering workload across multiple workers. You can find an
example of this in our
[Cloud Functions example](https://github.com/redotvideo/examples/tree/main/google-cloud-run-parallelized).
To use `renderPartialVideo()`, you don't have to manually assign a range of
frames or timestamps to render. Instead, you just pass the worker id and the
total number of workers your rendering job uses, and the function will figure
out the frames to render by itself.

Since merging partial videos gives you audio issues (audio becomes laggy), this
function returns the path to the audio file and mute video file of the partial
video. Afterwards, you should first concatenate all of the partial audio files
and then concatenate all of the partial video files, and then merge the audio
and video to obtain your final mp4 file.

To do this, you can use the `concatenateMedia()` and `mergeAudioWithVideo()`
functions from `@revideo/ffmpeg` ([docs](/revideo-ffmpeg))

## Example Usage

```tsx
import {renderPartialVideo} from '@revideo/renderer';

const {audioFile, videoFile} = renderPartialVideo(
  './vite.config.ts',
  3,
  10,
  {color: 'white'},
  () => {},
  {
    name: 'out',
    workers: 1,
    range: [1, 3],
    dimensions: [1080, 1792],
    logProgress: true,
    fmpeg: {
      ffmpegLogLevel: 'error',
      ffmpegPath: 'ffmpeg',
    },
    puppeteer: {
      args: ['--no-sandbox'],
    },
  },
);
```

## Arguments

### configFile:

A string pointing towards your Vite config file. This will almost always be
`vite.config.ts`.

### workerId

The id of the worker. We start counting at 0, so if you have 5 workers, values
from 0 to 4 are accepted.

### numWorkers

The number of workers you use in total. This informs the function which range of
the video to render. For instance, worker 0 out of 10 workers would render 1/10
of the full video, whereas worker 0 out of 2 would render half of the video.

### params (optional):

Parameters / or variables passed to your video. See [here](/parameterized-video)
learn more about parameterized videos. `default = {}`

### progressCallback (optional):

A function that gets called with the progress of the rendering process. The
function gets called with two arguments: the id of the worker that is calling
the function, and the progress of the rendering process (float between 0 and 1).
`default = () => {}`

### settings (optional):

An object with the following arguments:

#### name (optional):

The file name of the video output - the video will be saved to `{name}.mp4`.
`default = "project"`

#### workers (optional):

The number of processes you want to use to parallelize rendering - for example,
rendering a 100s long video with 10 workers means that 10 processes handle 10s
of video each. Your laptop will probably render fastest with one worker, but VMs
with a lot of computing power can benefit from using more than one - ideally,
you should experiment what number gives you the best speedup. `default = 1`.

#### range (optional):

The start and end second of the video. Can be used to only render a part of the
video. `default = [0, Infinity]`

#### dimensions (optional):

Dimensions of the video to render as [x,y]. Default: uses the value specified in
project.meta.

#### logProgress (optional):

Logs render progress to the console if set to `true`

#### ffmpeg (optional):

FFmpeg options - is an instance of FFmpegOptions.

##### ffmpegLogLevel (optional):

The log level of FFmpeg. Can be one of `error`, `warning`, `info`, `verbose`,
`debug`, `trace`. `default = "error"`

##### ffmpegPath (optional):

The path to the FFmpeg binary. If not specified, the FFmpeg binary shipped with
Revideo will be used.

#### puppeteer (optional):

Launch options for puppeteer - is an instance of puppeteer's
[BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions](https://pptr.dev/api/puppeteer.browserlaunchargumentoptions/)

## Returns

`{ audioFile, videoFile }`, where both are strings representing the path to the
files.
