---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /common-issues/slow-rendering
---

# Slow Rendering

The rendering speed of Revideo projects depends on the content of your video.
Projects that contain no `<Video/>` elements generally render much faster than
those that do, as processing videos is an expensive operation.

Here you can find some strategies that can help speed up rendering:

### Set `png={false}` in `<Video/>` tags

The frames of `<Video/>` elements are extracted as png by default to ensure the
highest quality possible. If you are okay with a slightly lower quality, you can
set `png={false}` to extract video frames as jpeg:

```tsx
<Video src={'/myvideo.mp4'} play={true} png={false} />
```

In our experience, this can speed up rendering by a factor of up to five.

### Lower output resolution through `resolutionScale` in `project.meta`.

You can scale down the quality of your render output by setting the
`resolutionScale` parameter in the `rendering` section of `project.meta`. We
have noticed that setting the scale to 0.5 made our renders twice as fast as
with the default of 1.0.

### Use smaller assets

When using media such as `<Img/>` or `<Video/>` elements, processing large files
takes Revideo longer than smaller ones. If you want to render a video with a
resolution of 1920x1080, it would be overkill to insert a 4K video inside a
`<Video/>` tag, as the resolution will be scaled down anyway. In this case, you
can speed up renders by using a smaller file.

### Parallelize Rendering

You can parallelize your rendering workloads using the `workers`: argument in
`renderVideo()` ([docs](https://docs.re.video/api/renderer/renderVideo/)). Note
that this can get memory-intensive, as it spins up multiple ffmpeg workers in
parallel - you might have to switch to more powerful hardware to support a lot
of workers.

Alternatively, you can also parallelize render workloads using
`renderPartialVideo()`
([docs](https://docs.re.video/renderer/renderPartialVideo/)) and serverless
function services such as Google Cloud Run or AWS Lambda. We have released an
[example project](https://github.com/redotvideo/examples/tree/main/google-cloud-run-parallelized)
demostrating how you can set up parallel rendering with Google Cloud Functions,
and will release a guide for AWS Lambda soon.

We will soon release a managed platform that enables fast, parallelized
rendering. If you are interested in getting access, feel free to register
interest [here](https://tally.so/r/mOz4GK).
